# About the CHOOSE YOUR OWN ADMNISTRATIVE VIOLENCE ADVENTURE zine

You go to the doctor's office, you buy an airline ticket, you go to the Department of Motor Vehicles. You're asked to fill out a form which asks a common set of information. Name, address, gender, insurance policy number, employer's name and address. In many instances, each piece of this information may be rote, at worst annoying. But for those who move through the world in the most marginalized of bodies -- people who are Black, brown, undocumented, unhoused, unemployed, disabled, and/or transgender/gender non-conforming -- filling out these documents out means making a commitment to a categorization which may contribute to serious harms to their person and livelihood.

This zine is about how practices and routines which are typically considered banal -- bureaucratic and administrative records -- reduce the life chances for those who are already marginalized by structural racism, sexism, transphobia, homophobia, xenophobia, and ableism. The term "administrative violence", coined by legal scholar Dean Spade, refers to the harms created by forcing oneself into narrow categories of gender for the purpose of having ones basic needs met, due to the constraints and understandings of the administrative subject by governments, welfare agencies, and health care organizations. Gender is only one of the categories we try to fit ourselves into. A given bureaucratic form forces transgender people to write a name they may not use in everyday life and which may not match their birth certificate. That form may also force someone who is unhoused to list an address at which they are staying temporarily, or someone who is undocumented to pause and wonder how and if they should disclose that fact.

Administrative violence becomes piqued for trans and gender non-conforming people and can be especially harmful to trans people of color. This typically occurs at the level of identity documents, sex-segregated facilities, and health care access. Rules for changing identity documents have inconsistent rules, across municipalities, states, and countries. Some require a doctor's note, while some require surgery or certification from another authoritative body. This results in a web of confusing twists and turns, looping back to other agencies with no uniform method of updating documents. Dean Spade outlines this kind of morass in his book, *Normal Life*:

> ...one person born in New York and living in New York might have a birth certificate she cannot change from "M" to "F" because she has not had gential surgey: a driver's license that correctly reflects "F" because she got a doctor's letter; Social Security records that say "M" because she cannot produce evidience of surgery; a name change order that shows her new feminine name; and a Medicaid card that reads "F" because the agency had no official policy and the clerk felt the name change order and driver's license were sufficient.